---
title: "Apache Maven Commands"
author: anantharajuc
categories: [ Maven, Java, CLI ]
tags: [ Maven, Java, CLI ]
layout: post
date: 2020-10-17 12:00
image: /assets/images/Apache-Maven.png
---

Apache Maven is a software project management and comprehension tool. Based on the concept of a project object model (POM), Maven can manage a project's build, reporting and documentation from a central piece of information. Maven can also be used to build and manage projects written in C, C#, Ruby, Scala, etc.,

### Maven Lifecycle

It has 3 built-in lifecycle's. Each lifecycle has a sequence of phases which are executed in a specific order. A maven phase represents a stage in the maven build lifecycle. Each phase is responsible for a specific task.

#### Default

- It is the main build lifecycle. 
- It has 23 phases.
- The following is a list of some important phases in the Default build lifecycle.

	1. **`validate`** - Checks if all the information necessary for the build are available.
	2. **`compile`** - Compiles the source code of the project. **`test-compile`** compiles the test source code.
	3. **`test`** - Runs the unit tests of the application.
	4. **`package`** - Packages the compiled source code into a distributable format (WAR/JAR). 
	5. **`install`** - Install the package to a local repository. 
	5. **`deploy`** - The last phase in the default build lifecycle copies the package to a remote repository. 

#### Clean

- It cleans the project and removes the files from the previous build.

- It has 3 phases

	1. **`pre-clean`**  
	2. **`clean`**  
	3. **`post-clean`**   

#### Site

- Creates project's site documentation.

- It has 4 phases

	1. **`pre-site`**  
	2. **`site`**  
	3. **`post-site`**   
	4. **`site-deploy`**   
	
### Maven Goals

Each maven phase is a sequence of goals. Each goal is responsible for a specific task. When a phase is run, all goals bound to this phase is executed in order.

### Maven Plugin

A maven plugin is a group of goals. All execution in maven is done by plugins. A plugin is mapped to a goal and executed as apart of it. Phase is mapped to multiple goals. These goals are executed by a plugin. A plugin configuration can be modified using the plugin declaration.

The following is a non-exhaustive list of commonly used Maven Commands for quick reference.

Quick Links :

- [Packaging](#packaging)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [Others](#others)

### Maven Dependency Scopes mapped with phases

1. compile (maven default scope) - build, test, and run
2. provided - build and test
3. runtime - test and run 
4. test - compile and test
5. system - similar to ones with scope provided
6. import

---

#### Packaging

*	**`mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip=true`**            
The project will be built without compiling the tests.                          

*	**`mvn clean package`**                             
Compiles the code and also packages it. 

---                                          

#### Running Tests

*	**`mvn test`**  
Run all the unit test classes. 

*	**`mvn -Dtest=TestApp1 test`**  
Run a single test class.                                                          

*	**`mvn -Dtest=TestApp1,TestApp2 test`**  
Run multiple test classes.                                                     

*	**`mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#methodname test`**  
Run a single test method from a test class.                                

*	**`mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#testHello* test`**  
Run all test methods that match pattern 'testHello*' from a test class.    

*	**`mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#testHello*+testMagic* test`**  
Run all test methods match pattern 'testHello*' and 'testMagic*' from a test class.

---

#### Others

*	**`mvn cobertura:cobertura`**  
Generates Cobertura code coverage reports.     

--- 
